this is the porject 5
rganization of this document
This guide is part of the Linux Documentation Project and aims to be the foundation for all other materials
that you can get from the Project. As such, it provides you with the fundamental knowledge needed by anyone
who wants to start working with a Linux system, while at the same time it tries to consciously avoid
re-inventing the hot water. Thus, you can expect this book to be incomplete and full of links to sources of
additional information on your system, on the Internet and in your system documentation.
The first chapter is an introduction to the subject on Linux; the next two discuss absolute basic commands.
Chapters 4 and 5 discuss some more advanced but still basic topics. Chapter 6 is needed for continuing with
the rest, since it discusses editing files, an ability you need to pass from Linux newbie to Linux user. The
following chapters discuss somewhat more advanced topics that you will have to deal with in everyday Linux
use.
All chapters come with exercises that will test your preparedness for the next chapter.
Chapter 1: What is Linux, how did it come into existence, advantages and disadvantages, what does
the future hold for Linux, who should use it, installing your computer.
•
• Chapter 2: Getting started, connecting to the system, basic commands, where to find help.
Chapter 3: The filesystem, important files and directories, managing files and directories, protecting
your data.
•
Chapter 4: Understanding and managing processes, boot and shutdown procedures, postponing tasks,
repetitive tasks.
•
Chapter 5: What are standard input, output and error and how are these features used from the
command line.
•
• Chapter 6: Why you should learn to work with an editor, discussion of the most common editors.
Introduction to Linux
Introduction 5
Chapter 7: Configuring your graphical, text and audio environment, settings for the non-native
English speaking Linux user, tips for adding extra software.
•
Chapter 8: Converting files to a printable format, getting them out of the printer, hints for solving
print problems.
•
• Chapter 9: Preparing data to be backed up, discussion of various tools, remote backup.
Chapter 10: Overview of Linux networking tools and user applications, with a short discussion of the
underlying service daemon programs and secure networking.
•
Chapter 11: Sound and video, including Voice over IP and sound recording is discussed in this
chapter.
•
• Appendix A: Which books to read and sites to visit when you have finished reading this one.
• Appendix B: A comparison.
Appendix C: If you ever get stuck, these tables might be an outcome. Also a good argument when
your boss insists that YOU should use HIS favorite shell.

